# 10-31-2022

Happy Halloween!

I'm finally able to start on my original GameBoy emulator after being so busy with exams and interviews. I will be gbdev.io as my reference
to figure out what specs I need to emulate. My goal for today is to get started on emulating the GameBoy CPU and instruction set.

The GameBoy also has I/O devices to emulate, and I was planning to focus just on the screen and keypad input.

## Memory
I'm not reading too much into memory today as I want to implement the CPU first, but I want to set up the basic structure of the GameBoy and this includes memory. Memory is viewed from the program's POV as an array of bytes. The GameBoy's memory ranges from 0x0000 to 0xFFFF, so the memory array size will be 0xFFFF + 1.

## CPU Specs
The GameBoy CPU is 8 bits, meaning it usually deals with bits in chunks of 8 bits or 1 byte. Therefore, the registers will be 8 bits and
the instructions will be 8 bits as well. The address range will by from [0, 2^8 - 1]. An address refers to 1 byte in memory.

The CPU has 8 registers: A, B, C, D, E, F, H, and L. These registers can be accessed as 1 register or 2 registers: AF, BC, DE, HL. 
There is also the stack pointer and program counter to keep track of. The flags register corresponds to the lower 8
bits of the AF register. Bit 7 is the zero flag (z). Bit 6 is the subtraction flag (n). Bit 5 is the half carry flag (h).
Bit 4 is the carry flag (c).

## CPU Instruction Set
These are the instruction set classes:
- load instructions
- arithmetic/logic instructions
- rotate and shift instructions
- single-bit operation instructions
- cpu control instructions
- jump instructions
