# 11-1-2022

I almost finished with implementing the instructions set but I got confused when dealing with double registers and endianness.
The Gameboy CPU is little endian, meaning that bytes are read and written left to right from least significant byte to most significant byte.
When performing arithmetic operations on double registers like BC, I was confused whether we would interpret the BC register value as
0x(byte C)(byte B) or 0x(byte B)(byte C). I thought it would make sense to interpret it as the former because the CPU is little endian; however
a quick google search proved me wrong:
- https://www.reddit.com/r/EmuDev/comments/gf8v1c/im_confused_about_endianness_in_the_game_boy/

Apparently, the way we interpret double registers is determined from the ORDERING of the registers. So if we had register BC, we interpret as
0x(byte B)(byte C) because B comes before C. Endianness is not a factor in this at all. An important thing to note is that endianness applies
to **reading and writing from and to the memory array**.

I started working on the CPU cycles. An instruction cycle consists of 3 parts: fetch, decode, and execute. Fetching the next instruction is done 
by incrmeneting the PC. Decoding the instruction that was fetched is done by referencing the opcode. Executing the decoded instruction consists of 
running the function corresponding to the decoded instruction. Then, the CPU goes back to fetching the next instruction. We could implement 
pipelining in a single cycle; however, I will start with implementing it sequentially to keep it simple. In future emulations, I would look to get 
into pipelining because it sounds awesome! Each instruction takes a certain amount of CPU cycles (t-cycles) so we need to keep track of a t-cycles 
to synchronize the system.


http://imrannazar.com/GameBoy-Emulation-in-JavaScript:-The-CPU
